My pen OK I need you.
I need to pay attention to my,
I mean the first few slides.
So I need you to.
I mean heads up and, uh.
Give me, I mean, send me some
feedbacks in the chat box just to make
sure that everyone has the focus.
And uh, is ready for the lecture.
Very similar to this brilliant
scene in the whole fiction movie.
The bonnie situation.
Have you seen this movie?
It is one of the greatest movies in the
history of cinema by Quentin Tarantino.
Yeah, I mean Ryan, I highly suggest
you to watch this movie. Uh.
And, uh, yeah, I hope all of you
have your coffee in your hand,
but pay attention to this slide.
Yeah, that's a good.
I mean suggestion wise.
Maybe someday we have to create
some movie nights or in the campus.
And a review.
I mean some famous movies.
So let's just start up.
The first slide is just those
items that I'm going to.
Uh, I mean I,
I'm asking your attention about these items.
They've first and foremost based
on my experience of I mean last
two years in this school, was that?
I have to remind you that my slides.
In all of my courses are not like this.
I've never put.
I mean the topics. Or the items?
I mean in text and then bulleting point.
I believe this is the always
cool way of presentation.
And, uh, this is one thing that
most of these students are.
If I don't remind about this,
gonna complain during the semester.
So and the idea is that I hope
you all are you watch this.
Brilliant.
A video clip I'm going to play
this video clip for you.
So the idea is that.
I don't expect you to be in the class,
just a passive and then receive all the
information memorized information and
then at the end of the semester you just.
Write down all these memorized information,
so I'm not going to, uh, ask.
You act like a robot.
So basically these two paradigm.
Is basically right now.
I mean even.
I mean in the I mean the
evolution of AI is very clear topic,
that whether we are asking to
robot act like act like a human
or we are becoming more robot.
So I'm against this part,
so as a result I never.
I mean,
expect you to just memorize the
topic that I'm going to explain,
and I put these topics in this slides.
Just to have an idea.
I mean I'm going to play this.
One of the greatest.
Song by Pink Floyd.
Do you have an idea and what is
the main intention of education in
these schools in any type of schools
in the universities or whatever?
So let me start.
Teachers, children.
[Music Playing]
[Music Playing]
mysterious scribblings a secret code
no poems no less poems everybody
melody reckons himself as a poet money.
money gets back I'm all right jack keep.
hands off my stack. New car cavier four-star daydream. Think I'll buy me a football
rubbish laddie get on with your work
Repeat after me.
Anita [Music] [Applause Playing ]
he owes me education
made of kneading arrows bus control.
Teacher leave them kids alone.
It's normal.
All in all it's just another brick in the wall
so i hope you got the idea, yeah we are not
going to have  classes like this,
so I need you to participate in
the whole process of education.
I mean me like you,
I feel like I'm still a student so
Do not expect me just to deliver the
topics in textual format and I won't
expect you just to memorize these topics.
I want you to become involved
in the whole process.
It's a back and forth.
It's it's a reciprocal.
I mean cycle, so that's it.
So, based on this idea.
My slides are not just simply books or
I just do not copy paste from book to
my slides or my slides are not summaries.
So you see my slides,
it has pictures and also they are not
good for last night before the exam.
So do not expect just to review
the slides and go to the exam
and then pass the course.
It's not possible.
And then, as I said,
the slides are basically
lectures or presented by me,
so the lectures are slides plus
to talk which is a reciprocal
interaction between me and you.
So if you do not attend the
classes or if you do not watch
the recording or you don't get
the idea behind the topics and
you are not involving in the
education process as a result,
there is a huge chance that you
are not going to pass the course.
And another one is this.
There are some topics that are not
covered in the lecture slides in the
lectures and intentionally I left
them for labs and lecture assignments.
So I mean, during the semester you will
see that a new topic is explained in
the lecture assignments or in the labs.
And, uh, one reason is that we
don't have enough time to cover
all the topics in the lectures.
Another reason is that again,
I want to invite you to do your own research.
An investigation about the topics
and search about the topics,
and I learned this stuff by
yourself by self study.
The topics.
About the lectures, I will release
the keys to and I mean to some questions.
Uh, but not all the answers about the labs.
I will not release the code for
the lab assignments.
So you have to find the correct
answer by yourself.
All the lectures gonna be uploaded.
I mean gonna be.
Gonna have the recordings at the end of
the day for for instance Tuesday or Thursday.
You're gonna see the recordings
you can see right now.
The recordings for I mean
the lecture on Tuesday.
But again,
I highly suggest you to attend the class.
About the lecture assignments
and lab assignments.
Truly and honestly,
I suggest you to attend the lab sections.
We have two great lab instructors,
Zahra and roonak
They are actually hired to help you
understand the new topics or how to solve
the labs or lecture assignments so.
Based on my experience,
because the attendance is optional.
Most of the time no students
show up in the lab section,
which is not good.
So instead of just asking
questions about the lab a,
I mean coding or lecture questions.
You have to attend the lab room.
You have to communicate with the lab
instructor Roonak Zahra and try to
solve the problem with their help.
So.
This is, uh,
one thing that I have to mention.
So lecture and labs are not just
question about the topics inside
the I mean the lectures, they are.
They may have some new topics which
are not covered in the lectures.
Another thing is that this is the
discussion board participation
for my course last semester.
As you can see here.
A lot of posts are posted by the students,
not only to obtain the bonus
point we already set up.
Plus 5% is a bonus point.
But, uh, you can see, for instance,
in this thread, 25 students
participated in all the questions,
uh, that the students post
in the discussion board.
Or 35 and it's you see there is a
huge participation by the students.
In this semester,
I also encourage you to do the same,
uh, whenever you have a question and
you think that you know some topics
that is helpful for other students to
do the labs or to understand some topics.
Or sometimes you may find a
video clip which is very good to
understand a new topic or etc.
You can simply post here.
In the discussion board in the blackboard,
if you enter a thread.
Uh,
you will have the opportunity to subscribe.
We can subscribe to the.
each thread of the discussion
board and as a result,
if a new post is there,
you receive an email as a
notification and then you can go
and read about the post and etc.
As you can see here,
you can put all the question or
any topic about the labs here.
About the midterm here, final exam.
Anything related to the course,
but not in these two.
In these categories you can put
in the miscellaneous category
about the lectures.
I will post some interesting
ideas in the lecture thread
for you as mean full format
Uh, this is, uh, the uh, the next
thing that I have to explain is that.
Other Registrar office is trying to.
The best approach for classes.
As a result they are changing the classroom
classrooms and the lab rooms so far.
Uh, when the class is the online,
the on campus classes start
from the January 31st.
Still, we're gonna have in the
have our lecture in this class,
but about the labs they changed the lab room,
uh, so. They may change it later as well,
so I want you to always look at the last, uh.
I mean, lab room number just
to avoid any confusion.
I hope that this is the final change,
but they may change it later
before the on campus, uh?
Classes, so this is one thing
that you have to be careful.
It was in 1115,
but now it is in these classes.
The labs in the a Thursday
afternoon is in another classroom.
So be careful about that.
And one more thing is that every weekday
the blackboard gonna go under the regular
maintenance so you are not able to open
the blackboard from 5:00 AM to 6:00 AM.
So this is one thing that
you have to be careful,
although all our submissions are.
Due at 4:00 AM four.
In the morning,
so before the shutdown of the blackboard.
But you have to be careful
about this as well.
So now we can start our.
Of course, before I can see
some questions in the chat box.
OK, uh.
Uh, we have.
Oh the the number of participation.
Uhm? It's not participating in the
final exam about any issue or any
question regarding the final exam.
These are the questions that the
student may have problem understanding
something about the I mean the exam?
Uh? These are the questions
that are posted by this student,
not the actual participation
of this thing exam.
Yes, you can. Actually the the
maximum bonus point is 5% based
on I will calculate this later,
I mean at the end of the semester,
but it is based on your participation.
For instance, if a student
participate more than 20 times,
it gets the full bonus.
But if you participate only five,
you get the partial bonus.
Yes, it is possible to.
Another partial bonus point,
like 2% or 1%.
How was a?
Oh, this is for the last semester,
so this is an example for last semester.
For this semester, nobody is still posted.
Any questions or I just put this slide
just to showcase that this is the number
of participation for last semester?
And about the lab, no one thing
is that the lab gonna start it.
All the labs and lecture assignments
It's all started next week.
So from next week.
All the assignments gonna be started
and the lab room. The lab sections.
Are not using. You have to.
You can for instance reply to a post that.
I mean it was helpful for you.
This is one hit to the discussion board.
OK, so.
Let's back to the sky.
The first slide that I showed you,
the colorful image of the
stars by Hubble telescope.
The topic of today's lecture is
from the first chapter of the book
Digital Systems and binary numbers.
Sorry about that.
Uhm? And the first slide actually is about,
uh, the problems that I talked.
I mean, the 1st.
Uh, idea on human individuals?
Was that how to study the
universe so as a result they, uh,
try to formulate some problems and
they try to solve the problems
among the few first problems where
how to measure the distance,
how to measure the height,
the length in order to travel,
the distance between the stars,
and to study them. So.
Measuring the distance,
or I mean the length of or the height
of a thing was among the first problems
to be solved by human individuals.
So here you can see an example,
I mean image.
About the position of Earth,
moon and the sun,
and assuming that we want to measure
the distance between moon to the sun.
So this is not it.
I mean this image does is not
representing the actual distance,
so it's just an example.
But, uh, it shows how to measure a distance,
for instance, from moon to the sun.
So the first idea was that if we
want to measure the distance,
assuming that we are living in
those old days.
We can have one object that we know
the size of that object and then try
to measure a length or a distance
based on the number of that object.
For instance,
if you want to measure the
distance between moon to the sun.
We have the earth so we can reformulate
the question distance between moon
to Sun by asking this question
how many earth is the distance?
And then we measure how many times
we have to pass the distance of an
error to reach from moon to the sun.
So for instance
1234 and then five.
Very simple basic operation.
But this process is and also still I mean
was one of the fundamental operation
in processing or solving a problem.
This process is from continuous
entity and breaking the continuous
entity into discrete units.
And that was the birth of discrete systems.
Any science that wants to study,
uh, the continuous, uh, entities?
That science must break down the
continuous entity into discrete
entities or units and that system or
science can be called discrete systems.
So now I want you just to have an idea
about what is a continuous entity
and what is a discrete uh, entity.
I want you go to this poll that
I put the link in the chat box.
And answer these questions.
So we have a poll. And let me share the.
Hold, this is the answers of the
pole and this is the pole itself
and I want to start the pole.
So on the top you can see the question
and on the below of that you can see.
All these students answered,
so please go to the link that
I posted in the chat box.
And, uh, answer the question.
So the question is that number
of stars is continuous entity
or discrete. Temperature.
Electron number of electrons.
They are continuous entity
or discrete entity.
So about the number of stars.
We say that 1234. We don't have
1 1/2 or we don't have 1.1 star.
So evidently number of stars is discrete.
Temperature. Temperature,
I mean of a weather or of an object.
We can have a, for instance 1.11 point
1/5 and etc. So the temperature is an
entity in the real world that is continuous.
Electron, we don't have 1 1/2
electron we do we do we count
the electron 123 and etc.
So as a result, whenever you can count
an object based on a discrete unit,
it is a discrete entity otherwise.
Continuous strategy.
So let's see the answers.
We have 84 students in the class,
but so far we have 40, 64 vote.
So I highly suggest you again as I said.
To participate in the surveys
or in these questions.
So let's see the answer.
So the answer is that the number
of stars is discrete temperatures,
continuous electron is discrete and.
Luckily, most of you put the correct answer.
So go to the next question.
How about the weight?
How about time?
How about speed?
And think of these entities or
concepts. Uh, in real world.
So about the weight in the real world,
this is a kind of we can have 1.1.
We can have more piece size with 1.119
something like that so we don't have
a way to one and then wait two we
can have weights between one and two,
so it's a continuous entity.
The same is for the time.
Between, for instance, 2 units of time,
we can have a very small amount of time,
so time is also a continuous entity and
also the same is with the speed. So.
We have 61. Votes.
About 20 students are sleeping in the class,
so I'm trying to wake them up,
so let's see the answer.
So yes, luckily, most of you
actually put the correct answer.
All of these entities were a continuous.
The next is about sound,
image and pain.
So the idea is that if at the end
of the day we want to solve any
problem regarding these entities.
If they are continuous,
we have to break them into discrete units,
otherwise we cannot process the
information about these entities.
So for instance, if we have sound.
Uh, I mean clips or if we have some
images and we want to solve some
problem regarding image processing?
Uh, we have to break the
images into discrete units.
Otherwise we cannot solve
it with computer systems.
So sound is a wave we know
from physics and as a result
continuous entity image is also.
It's a controversial. I mean,
it's a debate between whether images,
continuous or discrete unit.
Uh, and I will explain what is the,
uh, why there's a debate on
image about the pain?
Also, there's a debate about
the pain and I will explain why.
So let's see the answer.
So I put the answer as all of them
are continuous. But some of you put
for instance a discrete for pain and
image and I will explain why there
is a controversy for image and pain.
Uh, sometimes you may consider image
as a discrete entity or also pain.
So. I'm going to explain this by the
next question. How about the wave?
Anything related to wave?
Is it a continuous entity or
is it a discreet?
Yeah, as most of you actually are asking,
how would image be continuous and it says so.
I will explain. So in physics we know
that wave is a continuous entity,
so let's see the answer most
of you put the correct answer.
The next is about the light.
That's the other thing that related to image,
because image when you have image from, uh,
uh, you're taking an image of the real world.
Basically you are asking.
Properties of light.
To be reflected on the image so.
If we could say that light
is a continuous or discrete,
then we could, uh,
figure out what is the property of image.
So let's see the answer from.
So most of you put the answer as a
continuous light as a continuous entity.
Very few of you put discrete
but the correct answer is that both
of these are correct. Actually,
light is among the mysterious entity in
physics because might have two properties.
It acts like a wave.
And also it acts like a
discrete unit as a photo.
So the building blocks of lights is
photos and photos are discrete units.
Light sometimes acts as a wave,
sometimes act as a discrete unit of photos.
As a result,
light can be considered continuous.
Also as a discrete entity.
So the image also can be considered
as a discrete or continuous entity as a.
I mean as a byproduct of I
mean manipulating light.
So. These are the next.
So these are the questions that
you asked to put an answer,
and these are the final answer.
About the pain.
Pain if you consider pain as electrical
pulses by the neurons inside the body.
As a result, is the building
block of the pains are electrons
and electrons are discrete units,
so then you can consider.
Pain as a discrete unit.
But, uh, usually because we cannot measure,
we can say we cannot say that
we have the pain of Unit 1,
and then we have a pain of unit 2.
There might be some measure
of paint between one and two,
so the naive answer would be continuous,
but the correct answer based on the.
Physical study and medical
science would be the discrete.
If you are going to measure pain
based on the number of electron
or electrical pulses in neurons.
So, but the idea is that in this course
we're not going to study physics.
Basically,
the idea is that if you're going
to solve any of these entities
or any problem regarding these
entities by computer systems,
we have no way unless we have to break
them into discrete at the end of the day,
we have to make them discrete
if they are continuous,
we have to make them discreet.
About the image, that was the first
surviving image of the surviving image.
Uh, took by. The Niepce.
This is a very good link from
the first image up until the
first image in the Instagram.
And if you read about this link,
basically an image is a reflection
of photos and the reaction of
photos on a piece of metal.
This is the image and if
that image is not clear,
this is the restored version of the image
and you can see that this is the window.
And this is a tree,
and this is a land escape.
So you can read about
this image on Wikipedia,
but the idea is that again image as
a reaction of photos and a piece
of metal can be considered as a
continuous entity or discrete unit.
And this is the first selfie
image in a piece of metal.
And as you can see here it is.
More than 100 years ago.
So. Now that we know that any continuous
entity like distance like weight like a.
A wave or like light.
If a light acts as a wave,
we have to break it into discrete unit.
Now the idea is that how we represent
or show these discrete units.
Now we know that we have to break
the distance between Moon to
the sun by the number of Earth.
So we make discrete units.
We have to measure that and show that.
So the first is that we say that one unit,
and then we represent it by
this very basic element.
We called this basic element digits.
And then.
Two, we repeat that in order to show
that we have two units of Earth.
3 units of Earth and then this whole process.
Which is representing the
discrete units by some symbols.
These symbols we call numbers or
digits is called quantization. So.
Any entity should be represented by
some symbols in order to be processed,
and these symbols we call them
numbers or digits.
And the whole process is called quantization.
If it is already discrete,
we don't need this part.
If it is continuous,
we have to make it discrete.
That's why, for instance,
if we have a distance,
we break it into units.
If we have wave or if we have temperature,
all these continuous entities must
be break into some discrete units
and represented by some symbols.
Among the first, uh,
discrete systems where the
Roman numerals as you can see 8.
Century before Christ.
And if you consider just the first few
digits 123 just repeating the same symbol.
Then, uh,
we have the roman numerals.
And we call this as a.
As the name is a unary system or base one,
and the reason is that we only have one
symbol to represent the discrete units.
And when we have more than one unit,
we have to repeat that symbol.
This very basic system was called unary
system and that system was used by the.
People, I mean in the history at the
beginning of solving the problems.
So.
Let me ask you this question,
assuming that you are living in those.
I mean old ages.
And, uh,
you want to answer this question.
If God or an Oracle tells us that
the actual distance of moon to the
sun is about 150,000,000 kilometers.
And the earth is diameter is.
13,000 kilometers.
My question is that how many
position we need just to show
the distance of Moon to the sun
based on the unary system?
So if you start counting,
we need one earth, two earth,
three earth, four earth up until.
How many of these ones should be
repeated and how many position we need?
So let me.
Give you the pole the question.
And also the yeah please go to
the same URL and put your answer.
We need 150 million position,
12,000 position,
around 12,000 position 13,000 or.
We cannot represent it because we
need an infinite number of positions.
I need you to participate all of you.
We have 45 votes so far.
So the answer would be very easy.
Basically, if the earth
diameter is 13,000 kilometer.
For each earth we we need one position
and to put that symbol that one symbol.
And then how many position
depends on the division of 1.
150 million kilometer divided
by 13,000 kilometer?
And let's see the answer.
So 150,000 kilometer.
Trillion kilometres, sorry. Divided by.
What was the earth? The 10,000.
So about this amount, so around
12,000. So the answer would be.
Yes, most of you put the correct answer.
So the next question is that.
If I want to tell somebody that this is
the distance of moon to the sun based
on the unary system in those old ages.
And assuming that they had some
a four or letter size papers.
And each paper gonna have 3000 position.
So the question is that how many pages
we need just to show one distance
between moon and the sun I mean.
Assuming that a Hossein wants
to tell his friend,
in those I mean in back in the history.
This is the distance of moon to the sun.
How many pages hossein needs?
So in the previous question we saw that.
I mean we need 12,000 position.
So if each paper had 3000 positions,
or simply divide division of 12,000
by the 3000 and the answer would be.
I'll wait for other students.
Again, we have 87 student in the class,
but so far we have only 54.
Around half of these students
are just. Participating
so let's see the answer.
So most of you yes, I mean 4 pages.
So. Back to these slides.
You see that just for
representing one distance.
In other system we need 4 pages of positions.
So that was the very beginning of the
numbering system and the attempt for the
people to reduce the number of positions,
I mean resulted in new and better
systems that we are going to explain,
which we refer to them as the
number system or number systems.
So the idea is that is it possible
to have a better number system
in a way that for one distance we
can reduce the number of positions
but representing the same number.
And that was the evolution
of numbering system.
So as you can see here at the very
beginning we have only very few
symbols and then gradually in order
to make it better number system
and reduce the number of positions.
Uh, we created a new symbols.
As you can see here,
gradually we introduce.
For instance, one becomes this
and then 234 and then up until 9.
The birth of zero.
That was the brilliant
moment in human history.
The need for representing none or empty
distance or empty entity that was one of
the greatest moment in the human history,
the zero element.
And as you can see here in the history,
then they divide it into two
different number systems.
Actually we can say same number system but
with different symbols or different digits.
So in the eastern part of the
world we have the Eastern Arabic.
And in the Western countries or western
part of the world we have Western Arabic.
As you can see, these are the new symbols.
And, uh, they originated.
They are both originated from
Hindu number system.
And now we have the complete
number system in 16th century.
In the 15th century,
in the West and in the east,
part of the world.
It has 10 symbols.
From zero.
Up until nine and you,
you may wonder that Y zero were
not invented at the beginning,
and this is,
I mean trivial,
because at the first stage they
thought that they only have
to represent what is existed.
I mean 123 why we have to
represent a distance which is
not represented or doesn't exist.
Later they figure out that it's
a good way to represent 0.
Distance or zero temperature or whatever.
There is no actual unit for, for that system.
So now I'm going to exemplify building
a number system in the history,
which is a better than the unary system.
This is my system. You can design
your own number system at home.
So in my system I have only four symbols,
0123 and I want to count the
discrete units of distance.
From moon to the sun.
I first start at the moon,
which is there is no distance for now.
As long as we are staying at the
moon and we want to count the
distance by the measure of Earth.
When we are at Moon zero and then
one and then two and then three.
The next unit gonna be 4 but in my
system there is no symbol for four.
I have to represent it.
Something like this?
One step after the third step.
In my system we have all
this symbol for 0123.
We don't have symbol for four.
Also, for five, we cannot represent
it in the Hossein's system because
the there is no symbol for five.
How can I represent two
step after the last symbol?
So the idea that I propose is this.
Here is my algorithm.
Or here is my system to represent
distances that are larger than 3 units.
I'm saying that I start with no position
or zero distance one unit of Earth,
2 unit of Earth three and unit of errors.
And if I want to represent
one more unit of Earth,
I introduce a new position to the left.
I kept track of the distances
that I passed so far and then.
I add 0 to the rightmost position.
This way I'm saying that I passed 3
units and now I'm in the fourth unit.
What is the next unit I simply
increment the lower position,
so for five I represent
5 by 3 units of Earth.
And then one unit of Earth
plus the number of positions.
And then
for 6 32 33. And then now I have
to represent the next unit.
But I cannot make this three to four
because there is no symbol for four.
So what I can do is that I follow the same.
Algorithm or same idea here I keep
track of the units that I passed so far.
And then I add a new position and I
start counting this on this new position.
So it becomes 3 units plus 3
units plus zero plus the number
of positions that are introduced.
So I introduce 2 new positions so
it becomes 6 + 0 + 2 becomes 8.
So this is the number in hossein's numbering
system to represent 8 units of Earth.
You can say that why we add
the position to the left side.
We can add position to the right side.
This way so this way 0123.
Now you want to go one more unit.
You keep track in the right side
and then you add a new position
here and then you start counting
0123 and now you need to represent
one more step but you don't have any
symbol for 4 you introduce a new
position and then you keep track
of what distances you pass so far.
On the right side. So. Again,
in the if you introduce position this way,
it becomes the number for 8.
If you introduce position in the right side,
this becomes the number for 8.
And then you can follow the same.
Uh, I mean, idea, assuming that we
are going to introduce the position
in the right side, or I mean,
keep track of the units in the left side.
If you continue 8.
9, 10 and then for 11 we have this.
Now we have to go one more step
so we can keep track of what
we've done so far in this way,
and then we introduce a new
position here and then keep track
of the next unit 0123 and etc.
And in order to see what is the
actual unit, this is the formulation.
So basically you sum the numbers.
And then the number of positions
that you introduced to keep track of
what you've done so far, minus one.
And this is the math formula to
convert between Hossein's number system
and the decimal numbering system.
Again, the same formula,
for instance, for this number in
order to see what number Hossein's,
uh, I mean, this is the number
in Hossein's numbering system,
and you want to see what is
the number in decimal system.
For this number you have to simply
Add all the digits or symbols.
Plus number of positions that
you introduced minus one.
And this is the number 50.
So. Now I want you to answer these
questions assuming that in the
right side these are the numbers
in Hossein's numbering system.
What would be the number
in decimal number system?
What is the actual number of?
A distance is that we passed
by the units of the Earth.
So let me go to the poll again.
Yeah, assuming that this is the
number of units that we passed by the
Hossein's numbering system, what is the?
A actual number of earth that they passed,
I mean or in decimal system.
What is the equal number?
I can see that.
I mean there is a student.
I mean yes, I mean you are able
to design your own number system.
As long as you are able to represent larger
distance or larger units of distance,
that's a system that can work.
So let's see the answer.
So the correct answer is that not valid.
So why? Because in my? System.
Whenever you introduce a new position,
you have to full all the
units in the previous steps.
So the only way that you
introduce a new position is that
all the left digits are free,
the last or the largest digit.
But here you can see that in
between you have some zeros,
meaning that you are not a used
that position to the last digit.
So this is an instance that you are
able to have some combination of digits
in a number system that is not valid.
So this is not the way in Hossein's
number system that I represent,
any distances?
So let's go to your next question.
How about this one?
What is the?
Number of distances that we
pass this on this number.
So let's see the answer.
So based on the algorithm that I set,
so basically the number of.
You have to just simply Add all the symbols.
And then plus the number of new
positions that you add. So 3 + 3 plus.
So let's do that. We have 4 free.
12 + 1 becomes a 13 plus the
number of position minus one.
So you have four, so let's see the answer.
Is that the correct answer?
Yeah. Basically.
Sleep plus 3 + 3 + 3 + 1 plus
the number of positions.
Minus one how many positions.
We have five position.
Minus one.
And 17. So this is the correct answer,
but this is my system.
I'm not telling you that.
I mean you have to memorize this algorithm.
This is the way that my system works.
OK, so. And these are other samples.
So again, uh,
this is the number in Hossein's system,
which represents 22 units of Earth.
This is again not valid because we are
not using up all the available digits in
these two positions, so it's not valid.
And also this way.
So a nice question would be.
In the hossein's  number system.
If I have given end position,
what is the minimum number?
The minimum number is that basically
put the lowest number digit.
Lowest symbol which is 0 in all positions.
Such that if you Add all
these zeros it becomes 0.
But one.
Kind of bug or kind of problem in
Hossein system is that based on
that formula it becomes 0 plus
the number of position minus one.
So in this way the lowest number given
n position is n minus one.
So. As you can see here,
there is some problem with
Hossein number system.
How about the maximum value?
The maximum value if I've given N position
would be putting the largest digit.
In all the positions.
So this way you have to just simply
3 + 3 + 3 up until the last three.
All of them we have N plus.
The number of positions minus one.
So I put it here so it becomes.
n number of n Times 3 plus
the number of position minus
one which is 4 and minus one.
So if you are given N position
in Hossein number system,
the maximum distance that
you can represent is this.
If you want to go one step further
you have to add a new position.
And here is an example.
So if you are given 10 position,
the maximum number in
Hossein number system is 39.
The reverse is if you are given a number.
And you want to know that if you want
to convert it to Hossein number system,
how many position you need.
It's very simple.
We can consider the same formula.
We can consider that the
n is the maximum number.
And then by some very basic calculation,
you know that.
I mean you bring the minus one
to the left side and then you
bring this to the left side.
It becomes n + 1 / 4 and this is the
number of positions that you need.
So. Now let's see Hossein number
system is a better system compared
to the unary system or not.
So now we want to represent the same
distance between Moon and the sun.
So this distance is still the same.
However, not in unary system,
but in Hossein number system.
In unary system we need 4 pages.
Now we want to say that if we
represented in Hossein number
system how many pages we need.
What would be the answer?
The first is that how many units
you have to represent based on
our previous question was 12,000.
Units of Earth unit.
So 12,000 units of Earth.
You have to represent.
In unary system, you have to repeat
that symbol one 12,000 times.
But they're here in Hossein's system.
You you have more symbols,
you have two,
three or else you have zero symbol.
So the answer is that based on this formula,
you have to assume that this number
12,000 is the maximum number.
So you put 12,000 here and then in
order to find what is the number of
position required in Hossein number system.
So. The number of position
based on that formula is this.
I assume that N is 12,000.
Plus 1 / 4 it becomes around
3000 position that you have.
You need for represent the distance assuming
that one paper can have 3000 positions.
As a result, you need only one page of
information to represent the same distance.
You can see that Hossein number system
is much more efficient because
it is only one page compared
to 4 pages in unary system.
Then we can say that Hussein
system is a better system.
So the reason is evident because
Hossein system has more symbol.
It has symbol for two.
It has symbol for free.
It has symbol for zero,
so it has more symbol.
As a result,
it can represent larger distances
in a less amount of positions.
So the next attempt is that makes
the Hossein number system better.
It's still one page of information is
a huge amount of position to just to
represent one number, one distance.
So we want to make it better.
So one thing is that.
In Hossein number system,
whenever we reach out the final digit.
If we want to go one step further,
we have to keep track of what
we've done so far and then add
a new position and start again.
So basically we can say that we
did one round of all four symbols.
And then we continue with a new position.
Up until this point.
Again, we could say that we
did 2 rounds of all digits.
Or symbols, we have 4 symbols.
And then we introduce a new position.
The same is here, so we reach out to the
11 and then we want to go one more step.
We have to keep what we've done so far,
which is 3 rounds of all symbols plus
a new position. So a more smart way.
To keep track of above, they've done so far.
I mean, whenever we reach to the.
Limit. Would be instead of just
keeping free again and again,
we can keep track of the number of rounds.
So for instance,
here instead of saying that we did more a
three step and then we did another three
step and then we want to do another step.
We could say that instead of
just repeating the three,
we could say that we need two
times over all digits and then
start with the new position.
Here we could say that we did instead of
just three position because have only one
position and say that we did 3 rounds.
Overall digits and then we wanna
start a new step. Here again,
instead of just four position,
we could be more efficient and we just
kept one position and we could say that.
Four but four is not available.
And then what we can do
is that we can say that.
We did four times over.
Over, uh, sorry this is not right.
This is not right, OK?
I'll I'll explain what we can do for this
because we don't have the figure four.
We have to come up with a better way.
So at least we know that there is.
Better or minor improvement over
the Hossein numbering system.
So let's do this.
Let's just start from the very beginning.
We have zero.
We have 123 now.
We do the same because we don't have four.
We introduce a new position but here
instead of just repeating the three,
we could say that we did one round.
And then we start with a new position.
The main thing here is that this one.
Has more significant value
compared to this one?
Because this one shows the number
of rounds over all symbols,
but this one. Only shows one step.
This way this new system,
although it's similar to the
previous system having new position.
But when you introduce a position
it becomes more significant.
So now let's continue with the five.
So again, zero becomes one.
Six is 2, seven and three here,
so one round overall digits,
which is 4 + 3 becomes 7.
And now we go one more step,
so we cannot add to the three.
We could say that we did two rounds.
Now the one round can come to two rounds.
But again,
this two is different from this two.
This two is representing
2 rounds over all digits,
but these two only represent two more steps.
And you can see that this position.
Has more significance because
it counts the number of rounds
compared to this position.
So if we continue further,
we can go for instance from 8 to 9.
To 10, so two rounds of all digits 8 + 2 10.
And then here 11 again we go one more step.
Now we can say that we did 3 rounds.
Of all digits. And then.
With zero distance,
so 3 rounds of all of figures 12 + 0.
Becomes 12 step.
And then 13, 14 up until here.
This is the time that I
I became confused so now.
We reach 15.
We want to go one more step,
but here what would be the next number?
So we need to say that we did 4 rounds.
We have to add 1 to the three,
but we don't have a symbol for three here.
So we can follow the same
algorithm as we introduce.
I mean, as we did a.
In here we add a new position.
Here we can add a new position.
But this new position is very important.
This time it says that so we did 4 rounds,
but we cannot represent 4 here.
So we add a new position.
But this position has a significance
of four times over all four digits.
4 times over 4 digit is 4 to the power of 2.
We could say that we did
one round of 16 steps.
So this one then gonna have a significance
of four to the power of 2 or 16 units
or 4 rounds over all four digits.
Which is more significant than this one,
which only represent one step?
So this one gonna have a significance
of four to the power of 2 compared
to this one in the first position.
This new system that when you
add a new position, it has more
significance is called quarternary.
System or base-4 or radix-4.
Very similar to Hossein number system
It has four symbol.
That's why we call it base four,
but the difference is that
when you add a position,
the position gonna have a significance
based on the power of four.
This was the immediate improvement over
the unary system in the 7th century
before Christ in Hindu Arabic numerals.
So after the unary system,
they came up with this.
Improvement over the unary system.
So based on this system we have 4
symbols 0123. We call that's why
we call it base four or Radix 4.
And the position had significance
and this significance are
based on the powers of four.
When you have one position,
the significance is very normal.
Just one step.
So 4 to the power of 0 or one step.
So each increment has a worth of one step.
So zero step one Step 2 step and three step.
In order to come up with
the number of distance,
you have to simply multiply the
symbol by the power of a by the
significance of the position,
which is this.
Then you introduce a new position
and the new position gonna show the
number of rounds over all digits or
4 to the power of 1. As a result.
This one has a significance of four,
so 1 * 4 and then we have 0 * 1.
Which represent 4. Up until here,
for instance, we have two,
which means that two rounds over all
digits plus zero step, which is 8.
And you have to continue.
I mean, I mean, uh,
likewise to more number of distances.
A number of units, so for instance
a 2 rounds +1, 2 rounds +2.
Up until this moment.
3 rounds overall of digits
plus the three step.
15 Now you introduce a new position.
This new position has significance
of 16 step or 4 to the power of 2.
So 1 * 4 to a power of 2 + 0 + 0.
And then, uh.
If you want to add one more step
you add to this step 2-3 up until.
Four, and then when you reach the four,
you add to the this position. So.
Now, based on this algorithm,
we want to see what is the what is
these numbers that we already saw
in Hossein number system in the base
four or Quaternary numbering system.
For instance, for this number.
The only thing you have to do is that.
Consider the significance of the positions.
The first position 4 to the power of 0,
the second position 4 to the power
of 1 up until the last position.
Which is the 7th position.
Sorry, the eighth position which
is 4 to the power of seven as the
significance because we start from zero.
And then. Multiply each symbol
with the significance of the
position that symbol represents.
And then sum them together.
And this is the number in
base four number system.
This number was not valid.
In Hossein's system.
But in the base 4 system,
it is a valid number and it
represents this number of units.
So for this number. What
would be the number in base 4?
So again, following the same idea,
we could say that this is the first position.
The significance is.
One unit or 4 to the power of 0.
Second position has four to the power of
1 third position for the power of two.
Fourth position for the power three and
fifth position for the power of four.
And then multiply each digit of that position
to the significance of the position.
And let's see the answer.
And then after adding multiplying these
digits, we have to sum them all together.
So in order to see the answer,
we could simply ask Google.
So three, uh, it was 3 multiplied by.
4 to the power of 0.
Sorry it was the 1st digit was one.
Multiply by.
3. Second position.
+
Uh, three to the third position. Plus
3, uh.
Fourth position.
Plus
fifth position 3. And then see the result.
Is that right? Hundred 1021?
So back to that slide. Yeah.
The same way you can calculate the other.
I mean numbers in. In base four,
and these are the actual numbers.
But let's compare these two systems.
So in these two systems you can
see that some of the numbers are
not valid in Hossein number system,
but in base four it's a valid number.
Also, you can see that with
the same number of positions,
base four can represent larger distances
compared to Hossein number system.
And the reason is that the positions
in base four has the significant
base on the powers of four.
But in numbering system for Hossein
they doesn't have any significance.
They don't have any significance.
Again, this is not a valid here,
but a valid in base-4 and
this is interesting.
With ten position in Hossein number
system you can represent up
until 39 distance or units.
But in base 4 you can represent this
huge number 1,000,000 something.
So. We don't have time for another poll.
Let's calculate the. Maximum and minimum
number of distances or units in.
In Base 4. Assume that this time the
same we we are given n positions,
but we are in base four or
Quaternary number system.
The minimum is representing the
lowest digit in all positions.
And if we assume all are zero and if
you calculate the actual distance so
it becomes 0 * 4 to the power of 0,
again 0 * 4 to the power of 1 up
until in all of these calculations.
Zero is multiplied by the four
to the power of n - 2 and then
0 * 4 to the power of n - 1.
So from zero up until n
minus one become N position.
Because zero is multiplied by all of them,
the result is zero.
And if you sum them all
together it becomes 0.
So it doesn't have that problem
that the hossein number system had.
So the minimum value with N positions is 0.
What is the maximum?
The maximum is that representing
the largest digit in all positions.
So let's do that. If we do this,
we have to multiply the largest digit
with the significance of the positions
first position, second position.
Third, position up until the last position.
And, uh, if you I mean, uh, extract three.
Then you have this Series which
we refer to as geometric theory
You already know from math.
If you want to see what is the
sum of a this geometric theory.
Uh, this is the formula.
So basically,
if you have all to the power of 0 + r
to the power of 1 + r to the power of
two up until R to the power of n - 1.
It can be proved by math that this
sum is equal to R to the power of N.
Minus 1 / r - 1.
So here R is equal to four,
so 4 to the power of n - 1, four minus one.
And this is the factor that we extracted.
So at the end of the day,
the largest number going to
be 4 to the power of n - 1.
If you compare the largest number
in base four with the Hossein system.
You see that here the powers of four
actually increases the range, but here.
It is multiplication.
That's why Hossein number system can
represent lower range of distances.
But base four can represent larger distances.
Again, if you have 10 positions
based on that formula,
it becomes 4 to the power of 10 - 1,
which is that huge number.
The reverse. If we are given a number,
what would be the number of positions
we need to represent that number?
So if again, if we assume that that
given number is the largest number.
By just doing some calculation
we we bring the minus one here
and then we have this we can.
Apply log log on both sides
based on the log of  base-4 and
this becomes the left side.
So log of four to the power of N
on the base of four becomes and
in the right side we have the
log of N + 1 to the power of 4.
So as an example, now let's see that
the moves distance the sun this time
based on the base for system uh,
how many position we need.
Based on this formula,
we have to represent the number 12,000.
In base four, if you assume that
this is the largest number based on
the formula that we just calculated,
so it becomes log of 12,000
+ 1 to the base 4.
If you calculate this,
the number becomes six points.
79 so as a result,
we're gonna need only seven positions.
In unary system we need 4 pages.
In Hossein system we need one full page,
but in base four we only need five positions.
Sorry, seven positions to represent
the 12,000 distance.
And what is the number?
Although we do not,
we have not discussed how can we
represent the number that actual
12,000 number in base four next week
we are going to explain how to convert
by a formula at distance directly to
the number in a new number system.
But this is the actual number that we will
discuss how to come up with this number.
Either you have to start from 0123,
we don't have four, it becomes
101112 up until the number
that represent in base four,
which is this or we have to
come up with an algorithm.
We discussed algorithm next week,
but you can simply see that the
base 4 system needs less space.
The number of positions to
represent the same number.
Sorry for the wait.
We are a little bit after us so.
That was it for now so. That's the.
That's the.
The way that the human.
Wanted to come up with better number systems
by improving the existing number system.
And in order to have less amount of
position to represent larger numbers.
We are done for today's lecture
and I'm ready for your questions
and sorry about the I mean.
Are being overtime. OK.
No worries, yes. I'm not sure which
one we have to improve the timing
or the number systems. But yeah,
thank you all for your attendance and, uh.
I just wanted to see whether we have a
question you too guys have a great day. Uh.
We have a question from Muhammad
so Muhammad you can enable
your mic and ask your question.
Yes, anything to the power
of 0 becomes one yeah.
OK, uh.
We have a question himaswin
So this number system is
better than the system we use.
I. Which one? I mean the system.
So I mean correctly in math
we used the decimal system.
We haven't discussed that.
Uh, but for now we can see that
the unary system repeating one.
Is working, but it's the worst
case and then we have my system,
uh, which was better,
but it still had some problem
and the base four was the I mean.
The next improvement over
the unary system based 4.
Uh, next week we're gonna introduce
other number systems that are,
uh, better than the base 4.
OK, so.
I'm going to be in the
office in the virtual office.
If you have any question,
I'm ready for your questions.
Uh, I mean there.
And have a great day.
Take care. I have to stop.